If you are new to monday.com sales CRM
and you want to learn everything there
is to know about the platform in as
short amount of time as possible, then
this video is for you. I've condensed 5
years of monday.com implementation
experience down into just this one video
here. So hopefully it will save you
plenty of time. By the way, if you need
any help setting up monday.com for your
business, we would love to help. So
please check out the link in the
description below. Anyway, as you can
see here, I am logged into our demo
monday.com sales CRM system. Now, my
plan with this video is to walk you
through the basic setup of Monday sales
CRM first and then we'll go into some
more nuance details later on in the
video. So, on the left hand side here,
you can see we've got our different
areas of our monday.com sales CRM
system. We've got leads, contacts,
deals, accounts, and a few other bits
and pieces. Now, to start with, and
where any business starts really is your
leads. Now, many people have different
definitions of a lead, but typically the
way I would describe the leads area in
any CRM system is like a dumping ground.
Think of the leads area is you just
chuck any old data in there that could
potentially be useful for your business,
but in no way, shape, or form are they
qualified. And the purpose of the leads
area is kind of like a pipeline of
qualification as opposed to the pipeline
of the sale, which is what the deals are
for. And I'll come on to that later on
in this video. But to start with, we
have our leads. So any lead gets thrown
into your monday.com system and then
it's your job to qualify them. Now you
can use a qualification structure called
bant which is budget, authority, need
and timeline. So do they have the
budget? Do they have the authority to
make the decision? Do they have the
need? And is there a timeline in place
on when they're looking to make the
purchase? But I'm not going to get into
too much detail on the sales side of
things. But obviously we focus on the
monday.com setup itself. So we clicked
into our leads. We've got new leads
here. And then we've got some basic
information about that particular lead
that's pre-populated by monday.com when
you get the platform. You can see we've
got the lead name here. So, Robert
Thompson. We've got the status, whether
they're new, attempted to contact,
contacted, qualified, and unqualified.
We've got a button to move to contacts,
basic information about the company,
their title, their email, phone number,
and the last time you interacted with
that particular person. So, really
rudimentary information. We can change
the titles of each of these columns by
doing so here. So I might just put
business or you could put account and
just hit enter. And you can see it's
really simple to change. Now if you want
to add additional columns and these are
essentially different data points that
you want to track for your lead, you
it's very easy to do so. You just press
the plus button on the far right hand
side. Here we have core lead
information. So this is information that
u monday.com suggests that you should
have for a lead. So for example, if we
tick owner, that means we can assign an
owner to that particular lead. So if you
have a lead team or a sales team, you
can assign someone to that particular
lead. As you scroll through, you can see
location and comments as well have been
ticked. Now, if we don't necessarily
need their title, we can untick an
option from the core lead uh data points
that we have available to us. Now, in
addition to our core leads, we have the
more columns area. Now, this is more
general information and pretty
standardized across the whole monday.com
ecosystem. We have different column
types. So, status, dropown, text, date,
people numbers, and then if we hit more
columns, you'll be able to see that
there's loads of different options on
different column types that we have
within monday.com and within monday
sales CRM as well. So, checkbox, link,
item ids, phone, location. This just
takes a bit of getting used to. Just
test it out. You can see what you think
of them. Try different columns. It's
very easy to, let's say, add a status
column to a board. You can mess around
with it. And then you can go ahead press
a three dotted button and you can delete
it down the bottom here and then get rid
of it. So there's no stress on kind of
testing things out and trying and
testing things as you go. Now I'm going
to give you a lot of suggestions on what
we do for clients throughout this video.
So to start with, what I would do is I
would change the new lead from being in
this funny uh orange color and I would
just put it as the default label. Now,
the reason we do this is because every
time a new lead is created or every time
a lead is created, it's going to be by
default a new lead. So, there's no point
in having a status column. What
monday.com have done, which I just
cannot wrap my head around, is they've
got an automation that says when an item
is created, set status to something.
That something was originally new lead.
Now, every time an automation runs, it
costs you an automation token, I think
they're called. So to save you on your
tokens, just delete this automation and
just follow the instruction that I
provided based on setting the default
label as the new lead. Now we can go
ahead and we can go ahead and delete
this. Uh why can't we delete it? It's
cuz this one is selected. So if there is
a status column with the color, you
cannot delete it. You can deactivate it.
When it's unselected, you can delete it.
And then you can see we've got new lead,
attempted contact, contacted, qualified,
and unqualified. Now, what I would
typically do in an instance like this,
and this is very obviously a lead
process, is I would set up groups
associated with each of the status
options. So, we've got new leads, and
then that's our new leads group. I would
add a new group and remind myself it's
attempted contact to contact. Hit enter.
We then have what else do we have?
Contacted, qualified, and then I'll have
unqualified. So contacted
qualified and then
unqualified and then hit enter. Now the
reason we do this and why it's so
important is for reporting functionality
later down the line. Um and again this
is not stuff that monday.com make
obvious to you. So you do obviously have
to learn it through videos like this so
um it becomes more obvious but yeah you
would need a lot of this information or
the way this configuration is being done
for reporting purposes down the line.
So, I'm just going to set these colors
as random here. I'm not going to get too
obsessed over the colors. And then what
you can do is run automation. So, now
we've got a basic status option set up.
We can go when status changes using
automation functionality, then move the
item to group. And you can continue down
the groups. So, I'll just do that for a
couple of these. So, we go to automate
in the top right hand corner and go
create automation. And then what I want
to do is say when status status being
the status column changes to qualified
then we want to move item to the group
qualified and hit create automation. So
I'll show you what that looks like now.
So now we go ahead change the status to
qualified and that item should and there
it has moved to the group qualified. So
that's quite simple. Again really
important for reporting purposes later
on down the line. So make sure you
implement this. Now another thing I
would typically do is I would have two
date columns. So I would add a date
column which is the date created. So I
would call this date column date
created. And then what I would do is I
would hide the column summary. Uh and
then I would restrict the column editing
which prevents other people from
interacting with the date created
column. And then I would run a very
simple automation using automate in the
top right hand corner. And I would say
when item is created then we're setting
the date of that the item that's created
to today. So now we know, as you can see
here, that every time a new lead is
added to our system, I'll be able to get
the day that it was created. Again,
reporting purposes down the line, I can
see the number of leads generated on
weekly basis, monthly basis, daily basis
if you're that lucky. Um, and it makes
things a lot easier. And that's not
readily available in some of the setup
with monday.com. Now, in addition to
this, if you want to get a little bit
more technical, you could add another
column, and this is another date column.
And then I would have this as date
qualified or date un slashqualified
because either they can be qualified or
unqualified. Again, same principle
applies of restricting column editing
and I would hide the column summary. And
then we would run an automation that
says when status changes to qualified,
then set the date qualified. Now we can
add in addition to when the status
changes to qualified move item to
qualified, we can add another step in
the automation process or what's called
a recipe within monday.com. So I'll just
go ahead and search set date and then we
go set date to
un/qualified. So now we're saying that
when the status changes to qualified we
will the the date un/qualified column
will automatically populate. Now the
reason we would look to do this is
because then we can see when it was
created and when it was qualified and
then we can run a formula column that
gives us the number of days between the
date it was created to the date it was
un/qualified which gives you an average
time to convert a lead. I know we're
getting technical, but it's possible.
So, I'm just going to show you that as
well. So, we would go ahead press the
plus button and search
formula. Um, and then we go ahead and
what I'm going to do is I'm actually
going to use monday.com's AI assistant.
And it's really, really simple. It's
actually very useful tool if you're not
so familiar with writing formulas. So
you select the AI assistant and I'm just
going to say give me the difference in
days between the date created
and date
unqualified column and hit enter and it
should let me just check. Yep, that's
worked perfectly. So I'll just press
insert and then set formula and then if
I select obviously it's May 21st here.
If I say this is 22nd it gives me one
day. Now what I call this is TTQ. Again
I hide the column summary. Uh and then I
would restrict the column editing. We
don't want people interfering with our
formula columns otherwise that can mess
up a lot of things. So these are just
some of the basics about the leads.
We've added the groups. We've added some
date created stuff. Obviously we know
now how to add different column options.
Hopefully that was all fairly
self-explanatory. Now up the top here
we've got different options. We can
search for leads if we would like to. We
can show where a person is assigned to
something. We can filter as well using
all of the different data columns
available to us. So, for example, if I
want to filter and say, show me where
the account it contains or is equal to
is, for example, Apple, then it's going
to show me all of my leads from Apple.
Um, it's very, very easy to use this
filter functionality. I would always
press the arrow on the right hand side.
Otherwise, you're presented with this
funny looking screen here. And this is
confusing to me. I've never really got
my head around it. I would always go to
switch to advanced filters. You can add
filters. You can add and or parenthesis
as well. And you can group differently
as well. You can also group by. So if
you have, let's say hypothetically, we
add a new column or columns. And let's
call this label. This is just a standard
label column. It's almost identical to
the status column. And we'll just
reposition that. Just hit refresh.
Something has happened there. Where has
it gone? There it is. It's down here. So
I'm just going to try and drag that
again as you can see. And then these
could be our different sources. So I'm
going to say Facebook ads. Hit enter. I
might go, I don't know, LinkedIn.
LinkedIn ads. I don't know. Do people
run those? And then I might just do
YouTube organic for example. And then if
I hit enter and then I can select this
one was Facebook ads. This one came from
LinkedIn. And this one obviously because
it's qualified YouTube naturally. And
then what I could do is group by. And
then I could group by my source. Let me
just change the naming from label to
source. Hit. Oh wow. Terrible spelling.
Um, there we go. Group by. And then
using the dropown menu, I can group by
my source if I want to. So now I can see
my leads by the different sources. But
this is in no way managing a process. So
that's the nice thing about using this
group by function. But you don't want to
create the groups for a situation like
this. This is bad practice for managing
a process within monday.com. You always
want the process to represent the
groups. But if you ever want to group
by, you can do. So that's quite
straightforward. Now up the top here,
you can press the plus button. You can
add a camban view if you would like to.
So if you prefer to look at your
different lead stages, as you can see
here, new lead, attempted, contacted,
qualified, unqualified, you can easily
drag and drop accordingly. It's quite
straightforward. On the canban view
here, you've got status, divide by, you
can divide it by groups if you'd like
to. You can show the battery in the top
right hand corner. Again, entirely up to
you. You can customize your camb view if
you'd like to. So if there are data
points on here that you also want to
add, let's say date created, you can go
ahead and drag that on there as well. as
you can see or if I want to remove the
source I can do. So that's quite
straightforward. Um and then you got
show column name. So that's the actual
name of the lead. Um and then we got
display cover image as well. So if
you've got a cover image or a file
associated with the lead, you might do.
I mean that's pretty rare, but if you
do, then you can have that shown on
here. So hopefully that can view makes
sense. And the next thing we need to
take into consideration is obviously the
actual qualification. Now monday.com
kindly leaves us with this button to
move to contact. Now, I truly despise of
this button that I might be the only
person. I just think it's ridiculous. If
you are qualifying a lead in typical CRM
terms, if I look at Salesforce or
Dynamics 365 or Zoho CRM or HubSpot, all
of these different products on the
market, when you qualify a lead, it
automatically creates a new contact, a
new deal, and a new account. So, a
contact is a person, a deal is the
actual sales process postqualification,
and then the account is the business.
Now the reason we use leads is obviously
we we we have it as a dumping ground and
we want to really protect the data in
our contacts, deals and accounts. We
only want useful information to actually
move over there. The problem is if you
press move to contacts as a lead then it
will create essentially push or take
this data from the leads board over to
our contacts board. Problem number one
with that is we can no longer report on
the information that was previously in
the leads. So every time a new lead gets
qualified that data leaves the leads
board. Thus we cannot see a
qualification percentage between
qualified and unqualified. Um and also
just because it's moved to contacts
doesn't mean you need to manually create
a deal and manually create an account.
Especially if you have data points
associated with an account on here and
also data points associated with a deal.
So a great example of that is the
account name goes where? Who knows? And
also let's say that their inquiry was
let's say label it was a specific
inquiry for a specific service. So if
they've inquired about service one,
service 2, service 3, then that really
should populate on the deals board, not
the contacts board. So data disappears
which is a nightmare. We want to prevent
that at all costs. So, as part of this
extensive video that I'm walking you
through on how to use Monday sales CRM,
I'm going to walk you through how to go
ahead and prevent this from being an
issue. Now, I will warn you, this is
quite complicated. So, first and
foremost, we're going to add a new
column, and it's going to be called the
item ID. Okay, item ID. And then we're
going to go ahead and select item ID.
And then press got it. So, now we have
an item ID. Every single lead has its
own unique reference number, which is
really important. And then what we would
do is we would go to the contacts, the
deals and the accounts board and we
would create a text column called UU ID
or you can call it what you like. And
then what we want to do is every time a
lead status changes to qualified then we
want to create a record in contacts a
record in deals and a record in count in
accounts but that UU ID from the lead
gets pushed over to the contacts the
deals and the accounts all separately.
And then there's a very clever
automation that we can run that says
when an item is created and if there's a
unique ID that matches this in this
board then they automatically connect
with one another. So we solve many
problems with one slightly complex
automation saying that as opposed to all
of the data going to the contacts it
creates a contact it creates a deal. It
creates an account they all link to one
another very very nicely. So I'm going
to come on to that in a moment later on
through the video as we go through the
different areas of the system. Now, more
general information about the leads
board. You can go ahead and press this
button here, and this will take us to an
overview of any particular lead. So, up
the top here, we've got the different
pipeline stages, and you can configure
these using the cog and it will give you
some options on the stages that you want
to see. You can move them around. So,
new lead, attempted, contact, contacted,
qualified, unqualified. You can set the
final phase label. So, close, set label
to complete button is being qualified.
Label for incomplete button is
unqualified. And then you can choose up
to three columns to display in the top
lefthand corner here. So let's say I
want to see their company name, email,
and phone number. And then you can
choose the colors of the bar as well. So
if you want to go for like a nice
purple, you can see how that changes. So
that's interesting. The more exciting
stuff is on this function here. This is
called the emails and activities widget
within monday.com. Now emails and
activities do exactly what they say on
the tin. We can email using one of our
own email accounts directly from
monday.com to our leads. So it acts in
the same way as let's say outlook or
Google mail but obviously it will still
log in your outlook account or your
Google mail account or you can add an
activity associated with a particular
lead that could be a phone call a note a
task for the future and it's really
really easy to do. Now emails you'll
just hit new email top lefthand corner
you can connect either a Gmail or an
Outlook account. Now, if you do not have
one of those two accounts, either Gmail
or Outlook, bad luck pretty much is the
end of that conversation. Um, I know
people have like there's all sorts of
different platforms out there. If you
don't have one of these two, you can't
connect. So, that's the end of that
conversation. But if you did, you would
select Gmail, you go through the kind of
signin process, probably some two factor
authentication, maybe even five five
factor authentication, and then your
emails connected, and you can send and
receive emails directly from Monday. So
if some if you send an email from Monday
and someone replies, it automatically
logs against that particular lead. We
can also add activities. So an activity
is like I said a meeting. You can log a
meeting, call summary. You can add
custom activities as well. So if you
want to be let's say a task and then I
don't know food, sure I'm hungry. Press
save activity. And then this is an
example activity. Now, one thing to note
here is if this is in the past, then
it's going to create on the activities
board, which I'll show you in a bit in
the past. So, it'll be marked as
completed. However, if you set this
activity as in the future, then this
will be something that you need to do or
to do or an active task that's not yet
been completed. So, just mind that. You
can also attach files, basic bulleted
list, change the text format if you
want. You can also mention other people
in your monday.com account from here.
You can also import columns. So you can
see got item name, username. This is
just placeholder information. And then
we can have templates. So if you want a
task template, you can go ahead press
save as new template. I'm going to call
this example template. And then you can
decide who gets to change or use this
template. So let's say I want to share
this template with everyone. You can do
you can see that every time I click it,
it populates the information. That exact
functionality applies for emails as
well. So it's exactly the same. You can
create really fancy email activity,
sorry, email activity templates um when
you're sending emails and then it just
auto automatically populates from there.
So, I'm going to go ahead use my
template quickly. Just press example
activity, press add. That's for the
future. Press add. And you can see this
now logs on our pipeline of activities
associated with this particular lead. Um
this would obviously get longer and
longer the more activities associated
with the lead. And you can scroll up and
down. Finally, on the right hand side,
you've just got basic information about
that particular lead. You can change
this stuff if you want to, but again, I
think Monday the general setup works
well here. Now, also, if you want to
have internal conversations about a
particular lead, you can use the updates
function in the top lefthand corner. So,
I often compare updates to Twitter or X.
Now, so let's say I want to at someone
else. Let's say I'm at myself and say
this has been done for this lead and hit
enter. I can do that person will then
get they'll get or receive a
notification. I guess they can then like
it. They can then reply to it and you
can have a threaded conversation about a
particular lead from the actual
monday.com system. So this is quite
handy for internal communication
especially maybe not on leads but on
deals if there's a lot going on for a
particular deal. This is quite an easy
way of managing it. So, I'm going to
close out of that. And then what we're
going to do now is I'm going to delete
this move button because it just
frustrates me that it even exists. And
then we're going to go over to the other
areas of the system. So, hopefully leads
are making sense. Now, we've got
contacts. Now, contacts are people like
I explained earlier. You've got every
single contact realistically should be
associated with an account. And then you
can also associate a contact with a
deal. You've got their email, their
phone number. If there's other
information you want to track about a
particular contact, you can do you can
press add column. You've got, let's say,
contact type. This is just a core
contact piece of information. Customer,
partner, lead, qualified. Again, this is
slightly misleading because why have a
lead section if the type could be a lead
qualified lead potentially you might
look to keep, but you can delete and add
different types if you want to. You can
add additional columns. Title, priority,
if they're high, medium, or low
priority. You've got the company,
although that's not necessary if you've
got a connection column. It might be
necessary if you're using the conversion
button on the leads board, but we're
going to avoid that in this video. And
then we've got comments as well. So,
these are all just like the standardized
column templates for Monday sales CRM,
but again, if you want to add more
columns, you're more than welcome to.
You can go as crazy as you like with the
data points that you're tracking for
your contact. Um, and then it's pretty
straightforward. You've obviously got
the active and inactive contacts. There
doesn't seem to be a standard status
option for this for whatever reason. So
either just don't have it, which is
option number one, or you could go ahead
and add a new status column. Add status.
Drag it to the front here. We' probably
hide the column summary. And then green
naturally is going to be active. Red is
going to be inactive. And we hit enter.
We can delete the ones that we're not
using. Uh there we go. Delete. Just
remember that the default label we don't
necessarily know when a new record is
created whether they are active or
inactive. So you can have it as blank
and then we can just run a basic status
in the top right hand corner that says
when status changes then move to active
or inactive dependent on the status
selection. So that's kind of contacts in
a nutshell. Filters and other
functionality remain the same here.
You've got some views that we might come
on to later in this video. Uh can't
promise it depending on how long this
video is going to be but um basic
information nonetheless. Moving on from
contacts, we then have accounts. So
accounts are obviously businesses. Um
you've got Google, Apple, Amazon here,
the you know the big ones. Um to add an
account like any other record, you can
add an account here. Just press new
account and then you've got their
relevant information again. So you'll be
able to see which contacts are connected
to your accounts and you can go ahead
and if you want to, you can add multiple
contacts to an account. You've got their
industry information. You've got a
description, number of employees,
headquarters, location, and then
obviously other standardized options.
And then the more columns we can add as
well. Note that you've got just
companies as one solid group here. I
think that's probably the easiest way to
manage companies unless they are active
or inactive. Um but that's entirely up
to you. Typically contacts become
inactive and active. Companies are
always going to be companies unless they
go bust which yeah um whatever you can
archive them at that point. Um but yeah,
so that that's just a function to be
mindful of and just like the basic
setup. Again, adding this and adding any
new record inside of your system can be
done pressing new account or by adding
one down the bottom here as so new
company and hit enter. So now we've gone
through leads, contacts, accounts, and
deals. And hopefully you're getting the
idea of how this works. We've then well
no sorry with leads, contacts, and
accounts. We've not gone through deals.
Now we have deals. So deals board is our
actual sales pipeline. So once we have a
qualified lead come in through the
system, we're then going to go ahead and
qualify the entire no we're then going
to go ahead and run them through the
actual sales process. So this is as you
can see the different stages. New
discovery proposal negotiation won and
lost. Now again the first thing that I'm
going to do is I'm going to move new
from there to the default label. Just
position that there. And then if I can
do I would delete that. And then we've
got new discovery proposal negotiation
one loss. These can be whatever you want
them to be. It's entirely up to you. And
just hit apply. But what I would again
recommend strongly doing is making sure
that the groupings match your status
labels for a process. So in this
instance, it's going to be new
deals. We've then I mean active is not
necessarily active. We've got discovery
deals deals. Um just bear with me while
I run through this. But again, the
importance of this is if you do not have
it, you cannot report on it as easily.
So the basic way in which Monday present
Monday sales CRM means that your
reporting functionality after the fact
is going to be extremely difficult. And
then you got
negotiation. Yeah. Enter. I'll
reposition this up here. Uh and then we
got close one, right? Yeah. And then
close lost. So unfortunately every now
and again we do lose deals. Um closed
lost deals and that needs to be recorded
accordingly. So I would put that in red
green negotiation. and I'll leave it as
is. Now, of course, you can create some
automations that says when status
changes to this group, move it to when
status changes, move it to this group,
etc., etc., etc. That's entirely up to
you. You've got the owner of the deal,
you've got the deal value. You've got
the contacts associated with this
particular deal, and then you've got the
accounts as well. So, contacts obviously
being people, and then accounts
obviously being the business that's
associated with the contact. Now the way
Monday have set it up initially is
they've made it so when the contact
selected so let's say I remove Steven
Scott the account goes as well. So
sometimes you can have accounts
independent to contacts and sometimes
people just prefer to mirror the account
over from the contact. It doesn't matter
too much. There are some reporting
limitations later down the line but it's
not it's not of major concern to be
honest with you. So new discovery
proposal. We've got all of this
information. and the expected close
date. You can see here we've got the
close probability which is marked as
90%. Um, and if we change this, we've
got the forecast value formula column
which obviously takes into consideration
the deal value times the probability
giving us our forecast value. The nice
thing about this is you've then got the
expected close date. So then you can
report on forecasted value per month
based on the expected close date or per
week, however you want to do it. You've
also got last interaction here and then
you can add additional columns. You've
got the core deal column. a close date,
actual deal value, deal creation date,
and then we've got more columns as well.
So, other just general columns that you
might want to track for your deals
board. Okay, up the top, we've got this
sales report function here, and this is
just basic reporting, but I'll come on
to that on the actual sales dashboard
itself. This is less important. And then
we've got the pipeline. So, this is
exactly the same canban view style that
we set up earlier. What you probably
will notice is a couple of the status
options are hiding. So, I would add them
as well. Um, and just make sure you go
ahead and when you press that, just
press save to this view so it updates
and then you can drag and drop your
deals accordingly. Now, if you've got
different people managing different
deals and you don't necessarily want
them to be able to see the other deals,
you've got two options. If you're on the
professional version of Monday sales
CRM, you can just do this, which is
slightly more basic. You go filter
drop-own menu where owner is and then me
dynamic. That means that when I sign in,
it's dynamic to me. When someone else
signs in, it's dynamic to their deals.
If you're on the enterprise version of
monday.com, there are permission
functions on on every board in fact
where if someone is not assigned to
something, they are not able to see it
at all. The difference being that if you
are on just using the filters, you can
move away from the filters like you're
not obliged to use that particular
filter. So then people will be able to
see other deals. Of course, this depends
on your sales environment, etc. Um, and
whether you want people to be able to
see other people's deals. Now, the same
principle applies on the deals board
with regards to updates, activities,
information, the sales pipeline, sending
emails. You got updates up here and then
we've got this quotes and invoices
thing. I will come on to that later on
in this video. And then you got the
activity log. Again, this is the same
for every single board on Monday. You
can see the activities associated with
this particular deal or the any area
within monday.com as well. So, hopefully
this has been a comprehensive
introduction to leads, contacts, deals,
and accounts. Now, I mentioned earlier
that we wanted to create a special way
of managing our leads to contacts,
deals, and account setup. So, I'm going
to run you through that. Now, you're
more than welcome to skip ahead if you'd
like to, but I'm just going to go to the
contacts board. I'm going to go to more
columns, and I'm going to go and search
for a text column. And then I'm going to
add this. I'm going to call this UU ID.
Okay, I'm going to keep it pretty
straightforward for the time being. I
don't want to complicate everyone too
much. And then we'll do the same on the
deals board. Same text column and UU ID.
Okay, UU ID. And then finally on the
accounts board, we're going to do the
same thing and go to more columns and
then text column and then UU ID.
Cool. Hit enter. So now what we want to
do on each of these boards is we want to
say when an item is created on this
board, connect this item where this col
where this column matches this column in
another board. We'll do that using the
automation. Sorry, I'm laughing because
the more I say it out loud, the more
complicated it sounds. But if you go to
create and then go to where and then all
you need to search is that on the
automations function you've got where an
item is created in this board connect
the item where this column matches this
column in another board by this logic.
Just hit use template and then we can go
where this column is going to be the UYU
ID matches this column in another board.
Let's select our accounts to start with.
Is this are we on accounts? Uh let's do
are we on let's select contacts. this
column being UU ID and then the connect
obviously being the contacts, the
connection between the contacts and the
accounts. So what we're saying on the
accounts board is when an item is
created on the accounts board and the UU
ID is exactly the same as a contact
record on the contacts board, then
they're going to automatically connect.
And then we're going to do the same for
deals. So we need to do this twice for
deals. Actually, no, we only need to do
this once for deals because we're
directly connecting to the contact, not
the contact and the account. So go to
automate in the top right hand corner.
go to create and just search where where
this item is created and then this
column is going to be UU ID on another
board. It's going to be the contacts.
This column is going to be UU ID and
then connect via the connection and just
press create automation. So now we're
pretty much there. The last thing we
need to do is go to our leads board here
and then we need to go to automate in
the top right hand corner and we and
then we need to run through the status
of creating these different items within
monday.com. So when the status changes
to qualified, I'm going to delete these
two. The first thing we want to do is
create item in board. And this board is
going to be
our contact board. Let's start with
contacts. Okay. And then the item that
we're creating, this is where we can map
the columns from our leads board to the
data points on our contacts board. So
the name's probably going to be the
same. The status won't the email and
phone number would obviously map. And
then we need then we need to make sure
that the UU ID is the item ID. Okay. And
just press done. And then what we need
to do is we need to create a buffer. So
between item contacts, we then need to
create a buffer of move item to group
and let's just say qualified. So the
reason we're doing this is so it doesn't
happen too suddenly and monday.com can't
keep up. So then we're going to go ahead
and create another uh recipe or step and
it's going to be create
item in board and then it's going to be
on the accounts board and then the item
what and obviously the data we would map
is um business related information or
company related information. So whether
we have any of this on here I'm unsure
but this is this is why it's so
important. You can't just push all of
the data into contacts otherwise you'll
lose lose loads of information. So, we
need to make sure we're mapping to the
right places. So, I think on the name,
it's going to be the company name, which
we did actually have uh account, which
is what we called it. I'll leave that uh
as enough for the time being, but again,
just make sure the UYU ID is the item
ID, and just press done. And then
finally, we're going to set the date,
which is the date qualified or date
closed. Set date create uh date
unqualified to today. Again, giving
monday.com a little buffer. And then
we'll press the final plus button. And
then we're going to create item in board
and then the board being the deals board
and click into that. And then the item
name owner. Um let's just go name. Yeah,
let's leave it as name dash
account. There we go. Owner can be
owner. That's fine. Last interaction can
be the same. That makes sense. And then
the item ID just needs to map as well.
And just press done. And then all we
need to do is hit update automation.
Now, I appreciate this was quite
complicated, but it's absolutely worth
it if you are planning on using
monday.com as a proper Monday as a
proper CRM system. So, if I now change
the status to qualified for here, what's
going to happen is it's going to create
a new item on my contacts board. It's
then going to create a new item on my
accounts board. Run the automation. It
should automatically connect to my
contact. As you can see here, I've not
done anything. And then on my deals
board, it's created a new deal. aa
automatically connected to the contact
and all of the information is exactly
where we want it to be. I know why can't
Monday just give us this for free,
right? You had to watch my videos to
tell you this. Um, and then we go to
back to leads and then if we ever need
to change any data points, we can do so.
We can click back into that automation,
update the item information. So, let's
say the industry mapped to the industry
and this map to this. And if we're
adding more columns on the leads board,
then we can update the associations
wherever we need to. So, that's fairly
simple. Hopefully, we're now making
sense of the whole monday.com system.
Um, there's not so much more I want to
show you on the leads, contacts, deals,
and accounts area within Monday. There's
a great deal more to show you throughout
the entire system. And obviously, I'm
going to come on to that throughout the
continuation of this video, but
hopefully you're feeling okay with the
progress we've made so far. Now, the
next thing that I want to introduce you
to is actually activities. So, I'm just
going to move this up a little bit to
just sit under accounts. Now, activities
is actually a really fantastic feature
within Monday. What you've got is every
time a new activity is created, as we
did earlier from this area here within
both the deals, contacts, accounts,
wherever you want to create a new
activity, it automatically populates on
the activities board as you can see. So
what I would typically do is I would
change the account activities to maybe
open
activities and then oh if I could spell
that correctly activities then add a new
group and just press done activities and
hit enter and then maybe change the
coloring. So there we go. So now we can
group by whether an activity has been
done or whether it's open. Um we can set
up some automations that says when an
item is created when an item is created
and if status is equal to done move item
to group done activities and then
obviously when status changes are done
or or whether it's open it goes to the
open activities. The important thing to
note about this is like I said if we
create a new one or a new activity it
automatically populates on this
activities board here. So we can see all
of the activities what it's related to
when the start time is when the end time
is and the actual related item. So, it
connects both to contacts, deals, leads,
accounts, and activities itself. If you
want to create an activity about an
activity, um, and I'm just going to show
you what that looks like now. So, if I
go to my deals board, I'm going to call
this is obviously our AA. I'll just call
this Nick Boardman. Hit enter. And then
we'll go ahead and we'll create a new
activity. So, now if I go ahead and
press add activity and I'm just going to
log a meeting that we're having, very
important meeting, and hit enter without
any thought to anything else. So if we
go to our activities area, you can see
that's automatically added. The status
is done. The reason being is because
when I created the activity, it was in
the past 11:52 to
12:22. However, if I want to go back to
my deals area and add another activity,
and in this instance, I'm going to
create a new task. This is going to be
future task. Very important. Start
again.
Task important. There we go. And then
again like I mentioned earlier the the
date function is really important here.
So saying that this is going to be in
the future. Press add to this. You can
see with the dotted line that this is a
future task. It says upcoming up the top
here. And then we go back to our
activities area. And you can see that
this one's been added. The difference is
the status is equal to open in this
particular instance. That is of course
due to the fact that this task is open.
It has not actually been completed yet.
I would strongly recommend managing all
of your tasks, all of your activities
through that function that I've just
shown you. And then you'd easily be able
to see who it is, what the who the owner
is, the start time, the end time,
further information. If you want to, you
can rejig the automation to also bring
in the description of that particular
task um that you that I wrote out. Like
like I said, this is a very important
task, whatever. You can pull that across
as well. The other way you can manage
this is through your my work page, which
can be found up the top here. If you go
to more and go to my work, you'll be
able to see all of the tasks that have
been assigned to you. um and all of the
activities and all of the different
functions. So I can see today I've got
activities. This week I've got
activities. Next week I've got
activities. If I go to the customize in
the top right hand corner, I can hide
the done items. I can choose the people
that I want to either see or not see in
my to-do list, shall we say? We've got
the boards that we do and do not want to
populate through. So in this case, it's
just the activities. The status column
is obviously the status column we're
using. We've got the date column, which
is the start time, the priority column.
We want to hide done items. And then I'm
not going to worry about the the color
matching. We can view it as a table if
we want to. So we've got context view,
which is a bit nicer, easier on the eye.
We've got compact view. Uh we can hide
the empty groups if we don't want to see
anything. That's So obviously you can
see I've got nothing later. So I don't
need to see that. Or you can use a
calendar view within the my work page.
Uh so if I go to the calendar calendar
view up the top here, it's going to show
me all of the tasks in my calendar. Now,
personally, I prefer this table view.
This is the this is the one I would use.
as like my to-do list if I were to be
managing my sales tasks. This is
definitely the easiest way of doing it.
So, every time a salesperson logs in,
they go to my work page, they'll be able
to see everything that they need to do
this week, next week, today, tomorrow,
blah blah blah blah blah, what they've
not done. And then, if you want to, as a
manager, you can go to people and you
can see where show me David's tasks and
then you can pull up David's tasks if
you want to. So, hopefully we're making
even more progress. Leads, contacts,
deals, accounts. We now have activities
and the my work function within Monday
sales CRM for managing your activities.
I then want to bring you on to client
projects, products and services. Now
this confuses me a lot because Monday
sale Monday sales monday.com work
management. So either they want you to
manage everything within the CL Monday
sales CRM and they don't want to sell
you more licenses or they're getting
confused themselves. The reason being is
Monday.com work management is typically
designed for project management and not
necessarily for a sales system of any
kind. But the fact that they've added
client projects as part of the standard
package within Monday sales CRM means
that okay, sure they they're happy for
you to manage your projects within
monday.com. Now, if I'm being totally
honest with you, this is not great
project management setup at all. Um, and
again, it's just different boards.
You've got the new projects, the status,
the deal it's associated with, the
contact it's associated with, the
account it's associated with. There is a
basic automation setup on the deals
board that comes with monday.com that
says when the status changes to one, it
creates a new client project. So, I'll
just show you that for the AA-ick
Borman. So, hit one and then you can see
here create a new project on this board.
This is in no way, shape or form an
optimal project management setup within
monday.com. If you want to learn more
about project management within Monday,
check out the link above or link on this
video that will give you a comprehensive
breakdown of how to manage projects
within Monday sales CRM or just any part
of monday.com using a highle setup. Um,
but again basic information you've got
sub items here. If you're not familiar
with the sub items, these smaller tasks
associated with the larger item. These
are being managed here. Um, you've got
obviously the priority of the project,
the timeline, the status, the deal it's
associated with. You've got a Gant view
as well if you want to play with a Gant
view. Again, this isn't the problem is
this isn't really a sales CRM. Now,
we've gone into full project management,
so I'm not inclined to cover that in
this particular video today. If you want
to learn more about a Gant View, uh
check out the link above as well. Um
I've got videos on how to use a Gant
View as well. Cool. So, now we've got
client projects done. We've got products
and services. Now, this is a very new
function within monday.com. And this is
where you can add or monday sales CRM,
should I should I say. Uh, and this
where this is where you can add new
products or services as like a a menu, I
guess. So, product number one. You can
add a description. And then we can add a
price. And then add a skew. So, let's
say it's 10. And then we could have a
type. Let's say it's inventory. We've
got some core item columns and more
columns. Um, this is very new. I'm not
entirely sure what the purpose of
products and services are. I think it's
got something to do with quotes and
invoices. We'll have a look at that in a
moment. Um, but we'll walk through it.
I'm learning while you're learning. This
is great. We've also got a dashboard of
our products. So, the number of
available products, the product types,
files gallery. You could add a numbers
column here, for example, that tracks
your stock level. Although, I doubt
there's going to be a function within
monday.com that automatically deducts
stock level from your s from the system
when you're adding new products or using
products in a quote or an invoice. I
know I've been brief on both client
projects and products and services.
products and services. We're going to
learn about client projects. I don't
think is suitable for this video,
although it is included in Monday sales
CRM. But one important thing to note is
obviously the sales dashboard. This is
absolutely vital for any CRM system to
be able to report on the data within the
system. Now you can see here this is
just uh what monday.com has provided for
us. So, we've got active deals, the
forecasted revenue, average value of one
deals, the actual revenue. We've got the
deal status distribution, actual revenue
by month, the number of deals won. We've
got an activity tracker, which is quite
cool. Forecasted revenue by month,
forecasted revenue by stage, and so on
so forth. A few different nice little um
widgets that they've added on our
behalf. Now, in order to connect
different boards to a sales dashboard,
because as you can see here at the
moment, this is only feeding in deal
related information. We can go to
connected boards in the top lefthand
corner and then we could go ahead and
let's say we want to pull in lead
information as well. We can do now
because there's already data on here.
Just make sure you untick add newly
selected boards to all existing widgets
because otherwise that is going to ruin
your reporting setup. But hit done. So
now I've added the leads board
information or at least the lead source
information to our dashboard. I can then
go ahead and create widgets about our
lead information as well. So let's say I
want to create a chart and I just want
this to be our lead
qualification percentage and hit enter.
So if I go to the three dotted button,
go to uh customize actually sorry then
go to chart type and then we can make
this a pie chart and then the labels for
in this instance we just want the board
to be selected as the leads board. I
don't want to pull deal data into my
lead widget. Uh and then the label is
going to be the status. The value is one
by one, the count of items, which is
exactly what I want, and then the
grouping is I just want to see the
difference between the leads that are
qualified and unqualified. So, what this
is showing me is 100% of our leads go
through qualification, and we've never
had an unqualified lead. Now, if I go
back to this board here and I just
remove our Robert friend and and while
I'm here, I'm going to change the status
to unqualified. And then if we move back
to our sales dashboard, you'll see that
this lead qualification percentage, 33%
is unqualified and 67% is qualified.
Again, we can create other widgets as
well. So, if we add another widget and
we want a chart widget and we want to
create a chart and this is quite a basic
one. Let's say we want to see the number
of leads created per month. That's going
to be a standard bar chart. Our x-axis
is going to be our date created, which
is what we created earlier. And this is
why it's so important for reporting
purposes. What I'm going to do is untick
the boards, the deals board because we
don't want to see deal information
flowing into our chart here. Then we got
X-axis date created. Y-axis is count of
items. So the number of items created
per month. Then customize if we want to
change the colors or the text. We can do
uh show only top and bottom items. We
can show cumulative data. Then if we
want to, we can show empty values. So
you can see here there are two records
that have not got a date created in
them. Um, then we can add benchmarks as
well. So, the nice thing about
benchmarks, especially with sales
functions, sales systems, is this is
what we're reaching for. So, the
benchmark line is, let's say 1,000. No,
no, no, thousand leads might be
overkill. Let's just go with 10. Um, and
then we go say this is our minimum. Yes.
And then we'll set this as red. Then we
could add another benchmark line. Let's
say optimal. Actually, this would be
let's say 25. 25 leads this month. Then
we put optimal. There we go. And then
we'll make this one green. And now we
can see on our chart. Let's just rename
our chart. Oh, where have I gone? Um,
and then let's just rename our chart
down the bottom here and said leads per
month. Enter. So now we can see we've
generated one lead this month. Our
minimum is 10. Our optimal is 25. If I
go to our leads board and it's very if
only it was this easy to add leads. But
if we just add a few more here, the the
automation's running for our date
created. And then I'll go back to our
sales dashboard. You can see that that
information has now changed from one to
three. So three leads have been
generated this month. Again, we can add
further charts, add widgets using charts
here up the top. Um we can customize
this. So let's say we want to go
slightly more complicated and we want to
see the number of leads generated per
month by source. So in an example like
this, we would actually need to use a
stack bar graph. The next thing I'm
going to do is unselect our deals board
as we don't want data putting through.
The x- axis is going to be the date
created. So obviously bottom is date
created. We're stacking by in this
instance we're going to stack by the
source. So where is the where have these
leads come from. And then we've got
yaxis is the count. So now I can see
here and again we can customize add some
benchmark lines boards and then I won't
worry too much about the groupings but
essentially this is showing me that out
of the three leads that we've generated
this month two we have no idea where
they've come from and one is LinkedIn
ads. Now I can change the stack by to
expand by or have it as an expanded
stack. So then this looks slightly more
separated. But what I would be mindful
of is if you got months and months and
months worth of data and they're all
expanded, it can get a bit messy. But
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
quickly go back to our leads board and
I'm going to change this lead source
because this is one we created to
LinkedIn ads. This one can be YouTube
organic. And then this one can be
Facebook ads. And then go back to our
sales dashboard. I'll scroll down and
you can see how that changes. If we go
to customize again, go to stackby. You
can unexpand the stack mode. Again, this
is going to this is a lot of information
to take on board. So, this is going to
take a lot of messing around with and
just testing and optimizing, but
hopefully this is a good introduction to
Monday sales CRM. So, now we've got
through what I would argue is the bulk
of the Monday sales CRM functions. We've
gone through leads, gone through
contacts, deals, accounts, activities,
client projects. We've touched on
products and services and new. So, we're
learning about that. And then we have
sales dashboards as well. Um, please
test everything. there's you can't
really get it wrong and it's very easy
to undo any mistakes or anything that
you're not happy with within monday.com.
I'd argue that is the beauty of Monday
versus these more expensive systems or
more complex systems like Salesforce
Dynamics, HubSpot, Zoho is to customize
the platform is so much easier, so much
easier than it would be to do it on a
Salesforce or a Dynamics or uh whatever
HubSpot or Zoho. So, you you can't
really get it wrong. Um, I've got plenty
of videos on my channel you're more than
welcome to check out on how to learn
more about each of these advanced steps
that we've gone through. Now, other
things to note within Monday sales CRM.
I know there we're still going. We've
got sequences in the top lefthand
corner. Now, this is exactly what it
says on the tin, email sequences within
monday.com. So, if you want to create a
sequence of emails when a new lead is
created, this is exactly the place that
you would want to do it. So to to access
this, we go to sequences in the top
lefthand corner like I've done. And then
we can create a new sequence. So I'm
going to call this example sequence and
hit next. And then it's going to ask us
to select the board that we're going to
pull data in for this particular
sequence. So I'm going to select leads
in this instance here. And then it's
really simple. It's just a case of
adding steps. So I'm going to send an
automatic email. And then as long as I
have my email account connected, I can
write the subject. Hey. I can use
placeholder information. So, hey, and
it's going to pull their item name,
which is their first name. And then I
can do blah blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. This
is this is why you should buy this
particular thing. And then that's it.
So, when a new lead is enrolled, the
first thing that's going to happen is
they get this email. It's going to say,
"Hey," and then whatever the lead name
is, then it's going to send it across.
You've also got email tracking if you
want it. So, email tracking is
available. You can tick or untick it.
And again, columns on the actual body of
the um the email can be pulled through.
Um, so if you want placeholder
information is very easy to do. So let's
say I want to pull the account through,
you can do so very easily. There you've
got some basic configurations on bold,
itallic, underline. I don't need to walk
you through any of that. You can link
stuff. Um, just be mindful of like spam
blockers and things like that. I'm not
too wellversed in how all of that works.
Just be mindful of it. We can then add
an additional step. So let's say I want
to then create a general task. Oh, well
actually what I'll do is I'll add a wait
time. So let's say 2 days. Um, by the
way, you can only do this in days as far
as I'm aware, but I can reposition it
after. So, you can't do X number of
hours later or whatever. I'm pretty I'm
almost certain you can't. Yeah, looking
at this, you can't. It's always going to
be in days. So, they're enrolled. They
get an automatic email. 2 days later, a
general task is created. This is a task.
This would populate on the activities
board associated with this particular
lead, and it would assign to the person
that is assigned to the lead. Then you
can add another weight. So if we want to
one day and then we could add a cool
task. You can see here we can also add a
general task. We can also tell someone
to send a manual email. Again these are
just different task types that we walk
through using the emails and activities
function on the leads board itself. Or
you can send another automatic email.
Pretty straightforward. So these are
kind of our
steps for email
sequence. This is pretty
straightforward. Again, this is not
complicated, but there is li and this is
the always the caveat with monday.com.
There are a lot of limitations. No, you
cannot do conditional logic for your
sequencing. No, it's harder to track.
No, like blah blah blah blah blah. It's
great as a basic, but the problem is and
what I find a lot of people want to then
begin to over complicate matters and
that's where monday.com begins to
struggle. So, moving on from steps,
we've then got up the top here rules and
notifications. So this is stuff that we
have to set up when we're setting up a
new sequence. So we need to select the
send email as so the account associated.
So either the your Gmail or Outlook
account. We've obviously already
selected the board. We need to define
the board columns. Now this is quite
important as well because obviously on
the leads board we had an email column,
we had a phone column that's
automatically populated, but you just
need to select where the data is being
pulled from. We then have a time zone
and send window. So I'm based in London.
So that's our UTC. Well, that's our time
zone. And then we can select when send
messages on these days. So, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Let's say
I don't want to send Saturday to Sunday.
And then send messages at this time only
between 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. or any
time. So, it's up to you. Again, not
enormous amount of flexibility, but
these options are a available. And then
we have some removal rules. So, any
reason why we should remove a lead or a
contact record from the email sequence.
So, we would remove the contact if they
reply to an email in the sequence.
remove contact if they open an email in
the sequence. Remove contact if their
email bounces. Remove contact if they
clicked a link in an email from this
sent sequence. And then remove contact
if an email in this sequence gets an
auto reply. And that's in beta. So I can
say, well, if they reply, I want to
obviously remove them. And then if their
email bounces, I want to remove them as
well. Now, one thing to note and this
has always been quite interesting is you
have to create a new status column on
the leads board or the contacts board or
whatever board this is associated with
that delineates or defines what has
caused the reasoning for the sequence to
stop. So, we would have to go to our
leads board and I'm just going to press
save sequence. I'm just going to save as
inactive. So, these settings already
here. go to our leads board and I'm
going to create a new status column
status and then I'm going to say uh
we've got
responded. I know this is
crazy.
Bounced. Uh I'm just going to leave
those two for the time being. I can't
remember what the other options were,
but I'll just delete these just for
clarity sake. And then press apply. And
then we go back to our sequences. We'll
open up the sequence we were working on.
Go to our rules and notifications. And
then where's the option to change stuff?
Uh edit sequence top right hand corner.
And then you can see choose status
column status one. Choose label. So if
they have replied to an email then we
need to set select set the status as
responded. Now you could use the lead
status if you wanted to. Again remove
contact if their email bounces. So
status one and then bounced. And you can
see how this works. Now you can use the
lead status but just because a lead's
email is bounced doesn't mean they're an
unqualified lead. So you wouldn't
necessarily want to unqualify them, but
hopefully you'll kind of see what I mean
by this. So you would have an open and
then you'd have an open on that status
that we created on the leads board,
you'd have an open option and then it
would set the status to open so we would
know what has happened. You've then got
notifications. So notify me when it's
time to make a call/ send an email. That
makes sense. You can turn that on and
off. Or notify me when a sequence ended
due to engagement. So this is obviously
what engagement is. And then you would
get a notification which is both an
email notification and just this alarm
looking thing in the top right hand
corner and it would say this particular
thing has happened. So we've got
notification recipient. So assign a
column with relevant team members who
will be notified throughout the
sequence. If no column is assigned
notifications will go to the person who
initiated the enrollment process or the
owner of the sequence. My recommendation
is to select the owner. So the owner of
the lead. You don't really just because
I've set up the sequence doesn't mean
that the person that owns the lead
shouldn't be notified. So the people
column should typically be the owner.
And then obviously because I haven't got
an email account, I can't activate this.
And then we can see all of the people in
our example sequence. And then just
press save. I'm just going to press save
as inactive. But hopefully you get the
idea on setting up sequences. Now we
have our sequence. We have the number of
steps, the number of days, the active
people, total people, open rate, reply
rate, clickthrough rate. We've got the
last time it was modified, the status
and details if there's missing data or
if it's active or whatever else. And
then I'm sure you're wondering, well,
how do I enroll someone in a sequence?
Couple of options here. So, we can go to
our leads board and we can either select
someone. So, select this person and then
we can add them to a sequence
manually. Alternatively, you can use
automations. So, if we go to automate
and then go to create and then just
search sequence or yeah, sequence,
right? Sequences. Yeah, this is the the
app you're looking for. You've got when
uh let's say I just click into it. When
an item is created, enroll item in
sequence. When status changes to
something, enroll item in sequence. Blah
blah blah blah when se run. But you've
got all of these different options, but
that you would just say when an item is
created, they get added to like the
introduction email sequence from as a
new lead, for example. And that's how to
automatically add them or again, you can
manually add them. So hopefully that
covers sequences. If you need more
context on that, have a separate video.
But hopefully that gives you a good deal
on how it works. Next, we have mass
email tracking. So, this is exactly what
it says on the tin. This is slightly
more straightforward. If I go back to my
leads area and I select three different
leads from I'll select Steven. I'm going
to select Robert. What I can do is I can
just mass email them. So, I'll mass
email. I select obviously the email
account that I want to email email from.
And then I can schedule it so in the
future or I can do it immediately. And
then I can just send a placeholder. So,
write out an email. could just be a
template placeholder their first name
and then send over the information. Now,
one thing to bear in mind with mass
emails is you can only send 500 at a
time. So, if you've got 10,000 leads,
that's going to be 20 selections you'd
have to make just to get all of those
sent out. And you probably or I would
recommend using a means like a status
column of tracking the fact that you've
mass emailed all of those people. So,
it's definitely not a marketing tool.
It's a sales tool. People get this
wrong. The email functionality within
Monday sales CRM is salesreated. It's
definitely not for sending nice
artistically designed marketing emails.
It is for prospecting and cold outreach
and is slightly different approach. Just
be mindful obviously if you're sending
20,000 emails and you've done 500 at a
time that you don't upset your domain.
Again, not my area of expertise, but
your domain reputation does matter and
it can be impacted if you're sending or
mass emailing like crazy. Cool. So, the
the one thing that I've been dreading to
come on to in this video is quotes and
invoices. So, I'm going to go through
it. I'm going to hold my breath and
we'll walk through it together. Quotes
and invoices are exactly what they say
on the Tim. You can generate quotes and
invoices from monday.com. You can do it
from here or you can do it from the
actual deals area itself. So, we'll do
it from here first and then I'll show
you what that looks like. So, you can
create new and then either a default
quote or a default invoice or you can
create new templates. So, let's just use
a default quote for the time being. This
is what it looks like. So serial number,
there's nothing you can do to change
your recipient's local or location. You
can set. So let's just say United
Kingdom, Cornish. Interesting. I'm going
to select English. The issue date is
obviously going to be reformatted, which
is quite helpful. Then the currency,
let's say we want to set as the GBP, so
the pound or if it's the dollar, you can
set as the dollar. Now, you can then add
a quote description. So it's entirely up
to you what description you want to add
for your quote. You can upload your
company brand. So if you want to add a
logo or a signature, these are different
options available to you. And then we
can go ahead and enter in recipient
details. So we can use preset
information data source or we can insert
it manually. So if by selecting use
preset information source from the leads
board, I'm then going to select uh let's
say Steven and it will populate Steven's
information. Uh and then choose fields
to show. So let's say I want to show the
name, I want to show his email, I want
to show his phone number. Um and that's
about it. So you can see here how that
works. If I want to untick one, you can
do. Or if I just want to do this
manually, I can do as well. Now, you can
then select the items. And I thought
this would be the case. Okay. So, I've
predicted this without even knowing the
product area that we had earlier that I
wasn't really sure of. This is where you
store that information. So, you store
the product product information on that
products board like product one that we
created. The skew was 10. The price was
10,000. And then we can go ahead and
obviously we can amend this information.
So, I've added the product. I'm then
going to tweak it. So, I'm going to say
the quantity is 10. The skew was I think
we did set the skew was 10. The price
was 10,000. Can add a description.
Obviously, you can add adjustments here,
percentage or the actual amount. So,
that's up to you. So, let's say we're
doing a very generous 10% discount. And
you can add your line items from here
and through your products. You can
continue through all of the products
that you have on your products board
within Monday. And then you can add your
footer note. So, if you're adding this
sort of stuff, you can do and then just
hit the preview button. So, this is what
it's going to look like. Um, or
unpreview this. And then we go ahead and
just press save. So, that's kind of it.
Um, uh, additionally, you can use this
drop down arrow and download it as a
PDF. If you hit preview, you've got this
information here. Um, and then we can
close it down and we have this new quote
that has been created. Um, and that's
pretty much it. We've then, so we can
filter by quotes or filter by invoices.
If we want to add new products or
services, we can do. If we go to the
main table, create new again or default.
and we can do a default invoice instead.
We can create new templates as well. Um
I suspect, yeah, looking at this, you
can have different color options
available to you. Um if you want to um
and then we can change the serial number
format. Oh, this is quite good actually.
I'm learning. This is quite this is
fairly new. This is actually a massive
improvement and I apologize for slating
it earlier. So you can create new
templates. So the document type being
either a quote or an invoice. Set the
name. Define your serial format. Uh,
obviously you don't have unlimited
flexibility here, but you obviously have
some options. The date, format, the
currency, the accent, color. Hopefully
it gives you more options than this,
just using I think this is hex. Um,
quote, top title. Okay, so it's quite
similar, but yeah, this actually does
look a little bit better to be fair. We
can add price adjustments. Ah, this is
nice. This this is all right. Uh, I
actually don't mind this at all. Good
job, Monday. So, obviously that you've
got all of the information that I've
just been through on here. um selecting
the source board and the source columns.
Um but you're as you're creating a
template, you're predefining it all. Um
and you can select the source board. Oh,
interesting. So, either you can manually
add products and services on the quote
or the invoice or you can use a source
board like the products and services
that we saw earlier. Select the name,
select the price column, the
description, the extra columns if needs
be, and that would then populate on
here. So, that's quite useful. Um okay,
so hopefully that makes sense. I know
I've just rushed through that. Um, but
this is fairly self-explanatory in my
opinion. I'm going to exit without
saving. What I'm going to go and do is
head over to the deals area and then
what I'll do is go into this deal and we
can create a new quote or invoice from
this particular deal itself. So, create
new, use the default quote. Same
information applies, but you're actually
adding this quote to the deal itself
directly as opposed to going to the
quotes and invoices area in the top
lefthand corner. and you'll be able to
see all of the quotes andor invoices
associated with the deal by clicking in
here and then you'd have a long list of
quotes or deals. Some more things to
note within Monday sales CRM is we have
integrations available to us. So we can
integrate Gmail, Google Calendar,
Outlook. It's pretty self-explanatory.
You just sign in and then you can use
some basic automations like we mentioned
earlier to connect everything up. That's
quite straightforward. Um so you're more
than welcome to check that out. If you
need more advanced automations or
integrations, then you can use a
platform called Zapia or Make. It's up
to you. And that will give you a lot
more flexibility. The problem with these
and all of the integrations is they're
quite rigid. There's not a lot of
options on how you want the system to
work with the other platform. So, you
would have to either follow how Monday
wants you to work, uh, which can be
quite limiting, or use Zapia or another
integration tool to connect one system
to another. That would inevitably give
you a lot more flexibility. But Monday
have got quite a lot of options
available. So again, more than welcome
to check that out. Now, every now and
again there are limitations to
monday.com. So quite often we would use
third-party integrations or we would use
apps on the monday.com app marketplace.
You can access the marketplace by going
to the three dotted button and going to
powerups. I'm just going to get rid of
this funny thing. Go to powerups and
then go to the app marketplace. And the
there are loads of apps that people have
very kindly well they charge by the way.
There are always monthly fees associated
with these apps, but you can then get a
lot more functionality by using the apps
than you otherwise would be able to if
you didn't have the application
available to you. Um, one one final
thing to note is obviously getting your
data into your monday.com system. So, if
you're going to leads, contacts, deals,
accounts, anywhere, you'll find that
there's a drop-own menu next to new
account or new lead. And this is where
you can import your accounts. So, you
can import from an Excel file or a CSV
file all of your accounts into
monday.com. Now, I will warn you, it
does get a lot more complicated if you
have, let's say, extracted information
from an existing CRM system and you're
migrating over to monday.com because
you're going to lose the connection
between the account and the contact
unless you know how to utilize UYU IDs
and unique IDs. Now, in all fairness, if
you apply what we learned earlier,
you'll probably actually be quite close
or a step ahead, but it is a lot more
complicated, especially if you've got
multiple relationships with different
records within the system. So, just some
final housekeeping bits. Within
monday.com, you've got different
workspaces. So, you can have different
workspaces within Monday. You can create
a new workspace and then you can have
other data points in there. Often we see
workspaces used for like let's say sales
one workspace operations another
marketing potentially another workspace
and then you can have your boards within
monday.com within monday sales CRM as
well you can create your own boards so
fortunately you don't have to just use
or you're not restricted to just using
what has been provided here. So if you
want to add a new board let's just
create a new board using the plus button
here you can do you can also use docs
dashboards you can create your own forms
create your own folders as well. So now
we're clear on importing data into the
system or at least how to do it. Let's
think about how we get data from our
Facebook ads from our website into
monday.com. So you can use a lead form.
And on the leads board, we're kindly
provided with a lead submission form.
It's very rudimentary, but you would
obviously share this form out using the
share form in the top right hand corner.
Distribute it to whoever you need to
distribute it to. Uh and then they can
input information that will then create
a lead in your system. Now, in order to
edit a form, it's really, really simple.
Obviously, you would go to the form
area. If you're not familiar with how to
create a new form, just press plus
button and just hit form. And then we
could go ahead and edit the form.
Obviously, all of the different data
points that you have on the your main
table will be presented here. We can
click into these different options. We
can hide the question if we want to. So,
like date unqualified and date created,
we wouldn't necessarily need. So, we
would hide both of those questions. the
source. For example, you could say,
"Where did you find us?" And they can
add that information or we can hide the
question. Again, entirely up to you. And
then things like phone number. Let's say
obviously a phone number. We want to c
it's an absolute necessity that we
capture that information. We can make
that required on our form here. Same as
email. Hit that as required. And then we
can go ahead and drag additional
information, remove information. You
kind of get the idea. You obviously
wouldn't want to necessarily just have
the form named as leads. So, call this
welcome. Let's say welcome to CRM crew.
And then it might say if you need help
with
monday.com, click the button below this
video. Exclamation mark. Um, and then
obviously fill out the information blah
blah blah blah blah. Yeah. Um, you get
the idea. And then they can hit submit.
Um, other points to know on forms. Um,
you can add or color and an image as
well if you want to. So you can change
the color of the form if you'd want to
do that to match your website. Uh you
got standard color options again, upload
images, you can reposition or reformat
the form if you want to. So if it's
question by question, different form
layouts, you've got that option
available to you. You can change the
font and the color of the text. And then
finally, you can put it to the right as
opposed to the left. I know in some
countries they read from the other side.
I think they do anyway. Don't quote me
on that. Um but yeah, that's all
possible. Um, and then when you go to
settings up the top here, you've got a
load of settings for your form. So, if
you want someone to be able to submit
multiple forms, you can tick that. If
you want people to save the form as a
draft, so if they're halfway through
completing information, that's also
possible. If you don't, if you want to
keep forms anonymous, this is more of an
internal thing, you can. If you want the
recapture uh like annoying Google puzzle
stuff, you can add that. I would never
have that on a lead form. Um, you've got
response limit. So, limit the amount of
responses you can receive. Again, for
leads, that doesn't necessarily make
sense. Schedule a close date. So, if you
want the form to stop being able to
submit or receive submissions after a
certain date, you can do. Again, not
something I would do. Hiding branding. I
definitely would select. So, this is
obviously your monday.com branding. You
don't want that on your form. I find it
frustrating that they leave that turned
off. I think it's a bit sneaky. And then
you got form language as well. And then
after submission, you can do response
viewing. So, allow submitters to view
and download their submissions. For a
lead form, probably doesn't make sense.
Um, but it's up to you. uh redirect URL.
This might make more sense. So if
someone submits a form, it then
redirects them to a video saying, "Hey,
thanks for submitting your information
or just a page that says, "Thanks for
submitting your information, blah blah
blah blah blah. Here are the next
steps." You can tick that if you want
and then obviously redirect them. You've
got form tags. Now, if you are using
this for leads, this actually might be
quite helpful because you can tag where
people have come from. Um and obviously
the lead source associated. Um this is
obviously getting slightly more
technical. So, we've got some board form
settings as well. So, we can include the
name question in the form. So, that's
the first thing and you would probably
in this case want to have it or the
first question, but you can turn that
off if it doesn't apply. You can include
the update section in the form. So, you
know how we had that Twitter or X
function earlier on in the video where
you can include that on the form. Why
you'd want to, I don't know. This is
definitely wouldn't work for leads. Um,
but this is just form functionality
generally. You've got sync questions and
column titles. So if you have this
turned on, that means the column name on
the actual board is going to match the
name on the form. So if you change the
name on the form, it updates on the
column and vice versa. This probably
doesn't make sense, especially for
leads. In most cases, it doesn't make
sense because if I have the on the form,
it says what is your name? Then the
column is going to say what is your
name, not name or lead name. So I would
tick that um if I sorry, I would keep
that I would keep that unticked if I was
you. You've got allow creating items via
form. So it's add option mainboard to
create new items via form. I'd leave
unticked. And then group answers where
does the item populate um when a new
item is created. So in this case it
would be your new leads. You can then
copy the link. I'm then going to search
this and then you can see here that this
is what form looks like after all the
messing around I did with the way it
looks. No wonder it looks so odd. But
yes, you kind of get the idea. So you
can also embed the form into your
website if you want to. go to share form
and then you can either copy the link if
it's basic uh website setup or you can
actually embed it with the code um as an
iframe. So it's entirely up to you. Um
just be mindful and the problem with
monday.com forms is they typically look
absolutely atrocious on your website.
There's a lot less flexibility than you
would have on other platforms like drop
form, type form, um any lead submission
function like click funnels for example.
So often what we would do is we would
integrate let's say Cognito Cognto forms
with monday.com. It looks better on
their website and then when the form
gets submitted it comes into monday.com.
We'd either do that using the direct
integrations we have available or we
would use a third party integration tool
like Zapia to connect the two systems
together. Hopefully that makes sense.
We're almost at the end of this video.
Um we've got hard to believe, right? Um
we've got notifications. So these are in
the top right hand corner.
Notifications. anytime you're notified
about anything, where you're mentioned,
and anything that's assigned to you.
You've got your inbox. This relates to
your updates. So, anytime someone
mentions you, this is where you'd be
able to see it. Um, you've got the um
adding new members to the system as
well. So, it's very easy. If you want to
add someone new to your monday.com
system, you can do. You would just do it
all from here. Uh, and then we have the
jigsaw puzzle, which is the monday.com
marketplace, which is the app
marketplace I mentioned earlier. We've
got CRM settings. So, we've just got
some basic CRM settings. This is
primarily around your email and activity
setup. So you can go through here. You
can see adding your email accounts. You
can log outgoing emails from your Gmail
or out Outlook inbox directly from here.
Or you can only do it when you BCC this
email address in that email. Then it
adds it to monday.com. You can add your
email signature simple or HTML and then
select when you want to use the email
signature. And then we got email
branding. This is another pertinent
point to note. We want to of course
remove monday.com branding from your
emails. why they decide it's acceptable
to leave that turned off and that the
monday.com branding is always present.
Frustrates me. And also some people just
never find this. I've seen it before
where someone sent an email with their
email signature and then also
monday.com's at the bottom which yeah,
not not a good look. Um and then you've
got never log. So email sent or received
from the addresses and domains defined
below will never be saved to your CRM.
Um if you've got more private
information, you can do that. You've got
enrichment suggestion. So, this is a
common feature from a lot of CRM
systems. I don't know how good it is.
I've never been fully convinced, but
essentially you put in, let's say, CRM
Crew Limited. I mean, you're going to
struggle with our business because
there's not a lot of data out there, but
let's say apple.com and then it enriches
or pulls information about, let's say,
employee size, etc., etc. You can turn
this off if you want to. And you can
clearly see it's generated by Crunchb.
If you're not familiar with Crunchb,
it's just like a data system similar to
Apollo or Lusher, stuff like that. And
then we got item association. So
automatically associate contacts and
accounts based on email domain. So
that's quite helpful. Again, it doesn't
solve our email problem that we had
earlier or the connection problem we had
earlier when converting a lead into a
contact and an account, but it is quite
helpful. We then now we've closed that
down. We also have search functionality.
So if you want to search anywhere in
your monday.com system for something.
So, if I want to search aaa crossboards,
we can it will find all of the records
or the emails or let's say I don't know
if nick@crmcrew.com does exist or not.
Um, no, it doesn't. But let's say
product number one, which is a product
record we created earlier. That should
exist. Or let's see, where is it? There
we go. Product number one. You can see
that that also is on here as well. So,
it's just like advanced search
functionality. I would say it's actually
pretty good to get um everything or try
to find something within Monday. You can
commandB if you're on Mac, probably
controlB if you're on Windows. You've
got the question mark up here. So, this
is just help. Um, hopefully this video
has been enough help to get you started.
And then we got the 3x3 dotted button.
This is for different products. So, if
you've got Monday sales CRM and work
management, that's where you would
switch between them. And then you've got
your profile information. So, my profile
information, you can manage email set
settings, you got import data,
automations, developer stuff. If you
accidentally delete anything, this is
where you go to trash to untrash it or
bring it back to life, I suppose. You've
got archive. If you want to archive an
item or a record or a board, like
anything can be archived and then bring
it back, you can do so here.
Administration, that's obviously
administration of your actual system.
I'm not going to go into too much detail
on that. The same as teams, you can log
out and then you got some other
information here as well. So, that is it
ladies and gentlemen. That is the full
monday.com sales CRM tutorial. I'm
trying to think if there's anything else
that I have or haven't covered. I don't
think there is. I think we've covered a
lot in this video. I appreciate there's
been a huge amount of information thrown
at you. Hopefully, it's been helpful. Uh
if you do have any questions, drop me a
comment. Can't guarantee I will get back
to you, but I will try my best. If you
do need any help setting up monday.com
for your business, check out the link
below. I've done this so many times.
This is the basics. I've not really
covered anything complex. If you'd like
us to help, we would love to help. So
again, link is in the description below.
You can apply for a meeting and
potentially you and I can have a
discussion about what we can do to work
your system and make it even better than
it already is. Um, thank you for
watching and I'll see you soon. Goodbye.